okay so let's get right to it most of
you are probably here because you've
seen my videos on the computer file
channel but on the off chance that you
haven't or you haven't seen them all or
you don't remember them all I mean the
first one was like four years ago I
thought the first video should go
through the existing staff get everybody
up to speed and also talk about the
various directions that this channel
could go next so while we're going
through the videos so far be thinking
about what kind of things you're
interested in and what kind of things
you would want to see more of and leave
me comments so I can decide what to do
next
also everyone should be subscribed to
computerphile if you're interested in
this kind of thing firstly because it's
a great channel and secondly because I
plan to continue making videos there in
addition to these ones okay so the first
two videos I made were about sort of
machine learning basics just concepts
like optimization and the idea that we
can think of intelligence as
optimization we can think of intelligent
systems as systems which optimize a
particular function over a particular
space the second video is just
explaining what's meant by a space in
this context people who are familiar
with machine learning stuff will know
this but if not check it out I could
make more machine learning basics videos
going through the fundamentals of how
some of the algorithms work and some of
those sort of core concepts of the field
although I feel as though those are
probably fairly well covered elsewhere
like on computer file but if people are
interested in seeing more of that kind
of content for me let me know ok then
the third video the holy grail of AI is
where the ideas and the hair start to
get really interesting it's where we
start talking about the difference
between the type of AI that we have now
and the type of science fiction AI that
we think of sort of human level true AI
and we talk about the concept of
generality the idea of having a single
optimizing system which is able to
operate in a wide variety of different
names rather than its narrow domain
specific intelligence
we have now from there we go on to the
deadly troops of AI where I start to
talk about super intelligence and the
way that a very powerful intelligence
can be very dangerous even giving a
fairly innocuous seeming goal like
collecting stamps there are all kinds of
areas we could go into from that video
for example we know that just saying
collect as many stamps as you can is a
very bad function to give this type of
agent but what type of function might
actually work what might be safe we
could also look at containment if you
have an agent like the stamp collector
is there any safe way to run it without
being completely confident that you've
chosen the right objective function for
it so the next video is AI
self-improvement
which is about the possibility that an
artificial intelligence could improve
its own code that really only touched on
the on the surface of that there's a lot
we can talk about there in terms of how
likely this is how possible this is what
the timescales might be for it happening
all kinds of questions there to look
into if people are interested so then we
have the asommus laws don't work video
which you know I feel like I was too
unkind to ask them off in this video and
I came across a bit too dismissive but I
stand by the content of the thing as
most laws don't work as a solution to
this problem never really did and we're
never really meant to the field has
moved on and they're not really relevant
anymore so I don't really I don't want
to make more videos about that the next
relevant video was the one titled AI
safety which was sort of a response to
doctor Holden's video doc called
McCambridge who has another video on
computer file which you also should
definitely watch that video touches on a
few different subjects I think the one
that has the most potential to be built
on is the question of predicting future
technology and the various problems
associated with that so if you want to
see more about the the difficulties in
predicting AI we can make more stuff
about that right the next video was
called a eyes game playing challenge
which is mostly about go made that video
because at that time deep minds
alphago had just beaten the world
champion and that video is about the
general way that AI go about solving
these kinds of perfect information board
games and why go is so difficult and why
it was such a huge challenge and such a
huge achievement for deep mind there was
originally going to be a follow-up video
to that one about how it actually works
in some detail which we never got around
to shooting and there is a pretty good
one on computer file as well but I can
talk more about that if people want more
insight into how after their works and
the last two generally I won't want you
to fix it and the stop button problem
kind of go together there about one of
the more concrete problems people are
working on right now in AI safety which
is just if you have a system general
intelligence that you've given an
objective to how do you design it in
such a way that it will accept being
shut down and modified because by
default general intelligences are
incentivized to prevent themselves from
being modified from having their utility
functions modified specifically we could
go into more detail on that some of the
other approaches people have proposed
and maybe go slightly more technical
than the computer file videos I also
made some videos unrelated to artificial
intelligence like the first one I made
was actually about public key
cryptography if you'd like an intuitive
understanding of how public key
cryptography works how it allows you to
communicate privately with people
without first agreeing on a shared
secret to use as a key check that video
out I can do more crypto stuff if people
are interested but I think that that's
fairly well served elsewhere on YouTube
but let me know in the comment there was
also the code golf video where I
explained the concept of the game code
golf and I gave a very short program I
wrote that made music which looks like
this I can't remember how many
characters it is two hundred and forty
something I think anyway it looks like
this and sounds like the background
music it's in the background music the
whole time I never really fully
explained how that code works
in detail if you want a video on that
let me know another thing I'm thinking
of doing is taking a current research
paper and just going through it bit by
bit so that over a series of videos you
get hopefully as full an understanding
of it as you would from reading the
whole paper there are a couple of
candidates the foremost I think is
concrete problems in AI safety which is
often recommended as a good introductory
paper so if people would like to see
that leave a comment I could do stuff
about the work idea as a PhD student
about artificial immune systems which is
only tangentially related but I think
it's really interesting or completely
unrelated stuff I once made a robot that
deliberately blinds people with a later
I'm currently working on a game that you
play using only your eyebrows I made
this battle-axe which is also an
electric ukulele like I should make a
side channel for this stuff anyway where
do we go now let me know what you think
in the comments
[Music]
please we